So, we've already talked about
technical communication.
We've talked about how to apply technical
communication principles to technical
writing.
And now we're gonna apply those kinda
same sort of principles to how to hold
a good meeting.
Now, I'm not gonna talk too much about how
to be a good participant in a meeting.
I'm gonna hope that most of you can
kind of intuit what to do there, right?
Participate, don't dominate the meeting
when it's not your meeting.
It's helpful for
you to go into a meeting with a goal
of what you want out of a meeting.
The other small piece of
advice I'll give you is.
If you're attending a recurring meeting,
and it's not something helpful to you,
find a way to stop attending
that recurring meeting.
There's a certain amount of, I don't know,
internal pressure, at least for me,
to attend every meeting and
to want to be in every meeting.
And it's because it feels productive to
have like a full calendar of meetings.
I love that PMs love to show
each other their calendars,
like look how busy I am, and I was like,
neat, I don't care, [LAUGH], right?
It's a humble brag but in reality is like
you probably are just not managing your
calendar well enough if you're
going to that many meetings.
There's no way all of those are useful.
So, that's my advice for you,
it's maybe consider cutting down
on your recurring meetings.
I have one of my co-workers that says
that I have no recurring one-on-ones.
They're all totally ad hoc scheduled
when we have something to talk about.
And, to his credit, he actually does
schedule a lot of one on ones, but
he has nothing recurring on his calendar.
And I was like,
that's kind of an interesting idea,
I don't know if I have
the discipline to maintain that.
But, anyway, so that's kinda my spiel.
Go to meetings that you find useful,
schedule meetings that are useful, and
cancel meetings that are not useful.
So, most of the rest of this section
is going to be about how to run a good
meeting.
Because I think that's actually the more
unique skillset to keep in here.
So, let's talk about some
previously-learned principles that we
learned previously, I said that.
Maybe, say it again, previously,
[LAUGH], and apply them to meetings.
So, the first one is people,
people, people, right?
Audience, and, in this case,
it is who is in the room.
I think there's a strong temptation
to like reuse slide decks,
there's a strong temptation
to reuse old rhetoric.
But it's always good to cater your
message to whoever is listening to it.
And it's also look around with who's
engaged with the meeting, right?
Cause you're gonna get a bunch of people
that just attend every meeting on their
calendar.
They're going to be on their phone,
they're gonna be doing other things.
And if they're not paying attention to
you, don't cater the meeting to them or
make sure that they're paying attention,
right?
Whatever that is.
Yeah, and
if someone's not paying attention to you,
it might be a context clue that maybe
you're not talking about the thing
that they want to be talking about.
So, whatever you can do
to wrangle guests or
whoever's in your meeting towards the goal
that you're trying to get to, do that.
The right amount of context,
it's the same thing here.
At the beginning of meetings, all of
us like to set up a lot of context, and
I'm just gonna say, say less here, right?
To say only the amount that you need
to get to your point, unbury the lead.
In this particular case,
you can do executive summaries at
the beginning of your meetings.
And just say, hey everyone,
for context this is our point,
that's good, now let's dive into
the point, that's an effective strategy.
If you can't do that, just try and
get through the context fast enough,
so that you keep people's attention for
as long as you can.
But meeting goals are always a good idea.
I said this previously,
prepare for 100% to say 5%,
this is extra applies to meetings,
as opposed to documents.
So, you certainly don't want
to say everything that you've
learned in a meeting.
You'll spend the entire meeting just
talking about who you talk to when.
Don't do that, that's not very useful.
But you do want to be really prepared
that if someone asks a question,
that you are prepared and
ready to answer it, right?
So, this is where I'm saying, these
meetings where I would meet at Microsoft
with senior executives,
I would probably prepare 100% to say 0.1%.
And I don't think I'm even
really that much exaggerating.
That I had to have so much context and
have to cover all of my bases.
So, that when they asked me the questions,
that I was really prepared for
those meetings.
And you're gonna kind of
find out as I go on here,
there's different levels here, right?
There's the casual one-on-one,
where you don't have to prepare a lot.
And there's the ultra important meetings,
where you have a million dollars of salary
going out the window for just one meeting.
And in those meetings,
you damn well better be super prepared,
it's basically public speaking
at that point, right?
You need to be that prepared for him.
Yeah, and you can see here,
at Microsoft, no joke,
I would spend a month preparing for
a meeting.
That was actually most of my job, it was
preparing for one meeting every month.
It was the most important
thing I did at Microsoft.
And you might say, well,
that's really unnecessary,
you're paying one person a lot of money
to prepare once a month for a meeting.
And I would argue that's actually one of
the most effective things that Microsoft
knows how to do.
My entire job was to brief executives
on what it was like to be a JavaScript
developer on Microsoft Azure.
And we were able to make a lot of changes,
but
it was that meeting that
was the lever of change.
So, I know people love to say,
how much money is
going out the window by having this
many people in a meeting right now?
How much salary is being paid out for
this 30-minute block?
And that is a valid consideration,
but it also is a useful point for
product managers and
people to leverage change.
Some meetings don't need to happen, but
some meetings definitely need to happen,
I think it's my point.
And then don't spend a bunch of time
convincing who don't need convincing.
I think there's a big temptation with
product managers that are like, I made
all these slides and I'm going to show
you all of the slides that I prepared.
If you're going through slides and
you're realizing that I actually don't
need to talk about this, skip slides.
Just do it and then make sure you
send out those slide decks later,
you don't have to go in order,
you don't have to show all your slides.
Be adaptive to the message that
you're trying to convey in the room.
>> When you gave the example about
that one meeting at Microsoft,
which represented a reasonable
swath of the organization.
Would you talk a little bit about
how you selected or listened for
the things that you would talk about or
that you would bring up?
Because I think the implicit point
here is that the preparation for
that one meeting covered a lot
of work that needed to be done.
And if that work got done,
there could be some good benefit to it.
So, how did you go about
weighing out objectives or
at least farming them to bring them up?
>> Sure.
So, I had an hour with people that were
able to affect change in the company.
And so I went in there with
usually two to three objectives,
usually one major objective and
two to three smaller ones.
And then they usually expected a little
bit of informational reporting,
which I always threw at the end.
Cuz if that was something to cut,
that was the stuff to cut for me.
So, I would make sure that we would cover
particularly my major point upfront first.
And I would prepare a ton of things
of basically what was the problem,
what was our solution,
what kind of solutions did we look at,
and who was involved.
I think that's more or
less the major points of that.
And then I would come in really strong and
just say,
this was a problem and we fixed this,
what do you wanna know more about?
Because typically they had something
that they would get really interested in
that we would follow their tangents,
right?
So, I'd have to prepare all of those
answers because they might ask me, right?
Usually, they weren't really
questioning my solutions, and
that was actually the part
that I cared most about.
They wanted to know some context, so it
was kind of like, all right, if you let me
have my solution, I'll let you know
anything that you wanna know about it.
That was kind of the agreements
that I had with those people.
And sometimes they'd be like, okay,
I don't actually like your solution,
let's go talk more about that.
And then I'd talk about alternative
solutions, why we didn't choose those,
those kinds of things.
So, I mean, it's kinda like I showed them
the tip of the iceberg and it's like,
okay, what part of everything underneath
that do you want to talk about, right?
Do you wanna talk about all
the way at the bottom of this or
do you want to talk about
how did we get here?
Those kinds of things, so
does that answer your question?
>> Yeah, that does.
The difficulty is making those summaries.
>> Yeah.
>> And remaining focused, but
also not allowing the discussion to get so
far out of your objective that it just is-
>> Yeah,
I'll talk about how to wrangle
here in just a second.
Something that I didn't put in here, and
in several places I should have put this.
Never be afraid to say I don't know,
because if you don't know,
don't make it up, right?
Because then you get into a real trouble
either by someone who will take you at
your word, when in reality you actually
didn't know what you were talking about.
Or you'll get called out of it and
you'll lose credibility.
But it's always better to say,
I don't know,
let me get back to you, I don't know,
this person might know.
Get used to saying I don't know a lot.
Because frequently they're just
saying these questions like, hey,
did we think about this?
And it's okay to say, you know what,
we didn't think about this, right?
It's okay for
other people to also be professionals and
smart in their fields as well, right?
So, embrace the fact that
you don't know everything.
And, yeah, that's another
important thing about being a PM,
it's that you're not
expected to know everything.
I'll even go as far as to say that
sometimes you'll prepare 90% to say 5%.
And they'll ask you something in that 10%,
something that you should have done and
you should have known.
And it's really okay to say,
you know what, I probably should have had
the answer to that and I don't,
let me get back to you by this point.
And then please follow up if you get
asked a question that you don't know.